Movie ( mID, title, year, director )
English: There is a movie with ID number mID, a title, a release year, and a director.

Reviewer ( rID, name )
English: The reviewer with ID number rID has a certain name.

Rating ( rID, mID, stars, ratingDate )
English: The reviewer rID gave the movie mID a number of stars rating (1-5) on a certain ratingDate.


Q1: Find the titles of all movies directed by Steven Spielberg. 

select title
from Movie 
where director = 'Steven Spielberg';


Q2: Find all years that have a movie that received a rating of 4 or 5, and sort them in increasing order. 

select year
from Movie
where mID in (select mID from Rating where stars=4 or stars=5)
order by year;


Q3: Find the titles of all movies that have no ratings. 

select title 
from Movie
where mID not in (select mID from Rating);


Q4: Some reviewers didn't provide a date with their rating. Find the names of all reviewers who have ratings with a NULL value for the date. 

select name
from Reviewer 
where rID in (select rID from Rating where ratingDate is null);


Q5: Write a query to return the ratings data in a more readable format: reviewer name, movie title, stars, and ratingDate. Also, sort the data, first by reviewer name, then by movie title, and lastly by number of stars. 

select name, title, stars, ratingDate
from Movie natural join Reviewer natural join Rating
order by name, title, stars;


Q6: For all cases where the same reviewer rated the same movie twice and gave it a higher rating the second time, return the reviewer's name and the title of the movie. 

select name, title
from Movie natural join Reviewer natural join (select mID, rID
from Rating as R1 join Rating as R2 using (rID, mID)
where R2.ratingDate > R1.ratingDate and R2.stars>R1.stars);


Q7: For each movie that has at least one rating, find the highest number of stars that movie received. Return the movie title and number of stars. Sort by movie title. 

select title, starts
from Movie natural join (select mID,max(stars)as starts from Rating group by mID)
order by title;


Q8: For each movie, return the title and the 'rating spread', that is, the difference between highest and lowest ratings given to that movie. Sort by rating spread from highest to lowest, then by movie title. 

select title, max(stars)-min(stars) as diff
from Rating natural join Movie
group by mID
order by diff desc, title;


Q9: Find the difference between the average rating of movies released before 1980 and the average rating of movies released after 1980. (Make sure to calculate the average rating for each movie, then the average of those averages for movies before 1980 and movies after. Don't just calculate the overall average rating before and after 1980.) 

select (select avg(avgr)
    from (select title, year, avg(stars) as avgr
    from Movie natural join Rating 
    group by mID)
    where year<1980)-
    (select avg(avgr) 
    from (select title, year, avg(stars) as avgr
    from Movie natural join Rating 
    group by mID) 
    where year>1980);

